>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
You know, by the
end of this program,
you are going to
make a decision about
whether you should
take vaccines or not.
Now it's not our intention
to tell you what to do.
We want you to make
up your own mind.
Take a look.
>>SHERRI TENPENNY: The whole
issue of vaccine safety
has been that we've always been
told that vaccines are safe.
But we've never really
explored the other side,
are vaccines unsafe?
Vaccine safety
studies are short.
They're inconclusive.
They don't go on for
a long period of time.
All the studies are performed
on children who are not ill,
on no medications, and are,
by definition, healthy.
But once a vaccine
is approved, it's
being given to all children
and all adults, even
those who have been
chronically sick
and are on many different
types of medications.
So we really don't
know until that
happens what the true clinical
trial is around safety.
>>NOORY: Our special
guest on "Beyond Belief"
is Dr. Sherri
Tenpenny, of course,
from the Tenpenny
Integrative Medical Center
in Cleveland, Ohio.
She's also a noted
author and researcher.
And Sherri, welcome.
>>TENPENNY: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Always a
pleasure to talk to you.
>>TENPENNY: Great.
Nice to be here.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: When I was a little
boy, I hated vaccines.
Mom and dad would
bring me to the doctor,
and I knew what was
going to happen.
And I was running
all over the place.
They had to catch me.
I probably was pretty
smart, wasn't I?
>>TENPENNY: Absolutely.
[LAUGHS] That's just
what I was thinking.
That was good.
>>NOORY: Back in the '50s,
I got all those kinds
of vaccines that include
the simian monkey virus
and everything else in there.
What's in my system now, Sherri?
Prior to 1985, there
were only three vaccines.
There was the MMR,
polio, and the DPT.
Now up through 1972, we also
gave the smallpox vaccine
to the general population.
But that stopped in '72.
So with measles, mumps,
rubella, with polio,
which has the simian virus in
it that you were talking about,
the contaminant that
is known to cause
several different
types of cancers.
>>NOORY: Oh, boy.
>>TENPENNY: The simian virus
was in the polio vaccine.
And then the DPT, which
is tetanus, diphtheria,
and pertussis.
Those were the only three that
were around up through 1985.
In 1991, there was a
big ramp-up of vaccines
that started with the hepatitis
B vaccine, now given at birth.
And now children get 40 doses
of 16 different vaccines
by the time they
start kindergarten.
There are many more
in the pipeline
for children who are
in middle school.
And there are about 22
more under development
headed towards
adolescents and adults.
>>NOORY: Now the
CDC will say, we're
doing this to protect the kids.
Big pharmaceutical
companies will say,
we're trying to sell more
and more drugs and vaccines.
>>TENPENNY: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Who's correct here?
>>TENPENNY: Well,
there isn't anything
that can come through a needle
in the way of a vaccine that
can do anything to
protect your health.
There have been
innumerable studies
now that have shown that
vaccines are not safe.
They don't protect you.
And yes, they do cause harm.
And so all of these children
who get these vaccines who then
have side effects and
suffer consequences
from that, who are
then sent to a variety
of different specialists
for blood tests and upper
and lower GIs and CAT scans and
all of these different things,
are just the heavy drivers of
the pharmaceutical industry.
And a portion of them
who get sick and have
chronic illnesses, with
asthma, allergies, ADD, ADHD,
seizure disorders,
cancer, Crohn's disease,
rheumatoid arthritis,
all of these things,
then are the drivers of
the pharmaceutical industry
because all those children
then become customers for life.
>>NOORY: Did we not eradicate
polio because of vaccines?
>>TENPENNY: No.
When people are
new to this topic,
they usually start
from two places.
What about smallpox?
And what about polio?
We know that smallpox went away
primarily because of hygiene.
It has been hypothesized that
the smallpox virus was actually
spread by bites
from a bedbug that
were in straw mats in the
third world countries.
And so as they stopped
sleeping on straw mats
and went into more cleanly
types of sleeping conditions,
and didn't have 27 people
sleeping in the same room
anymore, we stopped
spreading that.
And in fact, we
think that smallpox
has been eradicated because we
don't talk about it anymore,
but the virus has
actually morphed.
And there is a condition
called monkey pox that
looks very similar to smallpox.
And we have monkey pox outbreaks
in Africa periodically, which
is actually a milder
form of smallpox,
but we can't call it that
because the CDC, of course,
says we have eradicated smallpox
since the last smallpox was
in the United States in 1949.
And the last known case of
smallpox was in the 1980s.
>>NOORY: Why are these third
world countries the areas
where so many of these
diseases are prevalent?
Ebola, things like that?
They all seem to
pop out of there.
How come?
>>TENPENNY: I think it's
because of a hygiene issue.
I also think that all
those third world countries
are actually the
experimental places
for the pharmaceutical
industry and for the food
industry, where Monsanto
goes in and has pesticides
and all sorts of spraying and
genetically modified food.
And so their immune
systems are much weaker.
So the viruses,
then, can pop up.
And I think that there are all
sorts of bioterrorism things
that are tested on people
in third world countries,
particularly in Africa.
>>NOORY: They figure, hey,
we can get away with this.
Nobody's going to say anything.
>>TENPENNY: And nobody's
tracking anything.
And nobody sees anything.
And so back to your issue--
you asked me about polio.
Because that's the second part.
Polio was well on its way out,
in terms of an incident rate,
before the polio vaccine was
actually instituted in 1954.
There are many countries
around the world that
never had a polio vaccine
that it's eradicated.
And it's because polio is
a gastrointestinal virus.
If you got exposed
to polio, chances
are what you would have
would look like the stomach
flu or maybe food poisoning.
It would go through your
system in three to five days.
You would have
immunity for life.
There is only a very small
portion of people, less than 2%
of people, who were
exposed to the polio virus
that actually developed anything
that looked like paralysis.
And of that 2%, more than
90% percent of people
had full recovery
within two years.
But we have this whole
concept burned into our brain.
Whenever I give community
talks about polio,
and I'll say, if I
say the word polio,
what's the first thing
that pops into your head?
>>NOORY: Me?
Iron lung.
>>TENPENNY: Right.
Braces, kids with braces,
iron lung, paralysis.
But the truth of
the matter is, that
happened in such a small
percentage of population.
I can't even find
statistics about it.
>>NOORY: Do they even
have iron lungs anymore?
>>TENPENNY: Well, they don't.
But the iron lungs were
actually the precursor
of modern-day ventilators.
So it's not really so scary.
>>NOORY: They were
just so big and bulky.
>>TENPENNY: Right.
But that was the
technology at the time.
And now we've
evolved to what you
would see in an
intensive care unit, what
a normal, daily ventilator
would look like.
But we've got that emblazoned
into our brains for over 60
years.
That's the first
thing that people say.
>>NOORY: That's a long time.
>>TENPENNY: Even two
generations away now,
young parents today are
the same thing: braces,
paralysis, iron lung.
60 years later.
We need to change that paradigm.
>>NOORY: That's how, you
know, I was brought up.
I mean, I remember seeing
a newspaper article
in Detroit in the Detroit News.
Some little kid sitting
there in his iron lung.
And I'm going, mommy,
mommy, how long
does he have to stay in here?
And she said, forever.
>>TENPENNY: Possibly.
>>NOORY: And it was scary then.
>>TENPENNY: It was scary.
>>NOORY: Little kid, I'm
seven, eight years old.
And you look at that, and you
go, wow, give me my vaccine,
please.
>>TENPENNY: [LAUGHS]
And as they chased you
around the doctor's office.
>>NOORY: Yeah, so there
was a great fear factor.
>>TENPENNY: Right.
>>NOORY: To get people to
run around and get vaccines.
And in those days, we
didn't have social media
like we have today.
So people just did what
they thought was right.
And it caught on.
Everybody caught on.
I remember getting the
little sugar cube later on.
I said, oh my gosh, we don't
need a vaccine anymore.
This is great.
Pop it in.
But that's how
they pulled you in.
>>TENPENNY: And it's
that oral polio vaccine
that is still used in third
world countries today.
In fact, every time
they do something
that's called a National
Immunization Day, an NID,
sponsored by the World
Health Organization
and frequently sponsored
by Rotary International,
because they want to
eradicate this virus.
We don't talk about
eradicating paralysis.
We talk about eradicating
a particular virus.
Every time we do
that, we probably
create somewhere around
800 cases of paralysis.
>>NOORY: 800?
>>TENPENNY: That's
the statistics.
Because about 2%
of the children who
get yet another dose of
the oral polio vaccine,
either the drops
or the sugar cube,
they actually
contract paralysis.
But because we
don't have any way
to track that in
third world countries
and India and Africa and
China, Southeast Asia,
many of those
children will get up
to 20 doses of the
oral polio vaccine.
And as that becomes more
sensitized in their system,
we are creating paralysis.
And in fact, the World
Health Organization
doesn't even track anymore
the number of cases
that we are actually
causing because they
don't want people to know.
>>NOORY: No.
Absolutely.
What does a parent do?
And what are the rules
in the various school
districts about vaccines?
>>TENPENNY: That's
a great question
because that's always what
comes up with parents.
They always say, well,
I got to get them shots
in order to get
them into school.
Some day when I
win the lotto, I'm
going to put up billboards
all across the country that
says, "No shots, no
school, not true."
Every state has an
exemption policy.
The only two states that
are really difficult
are West Virginia
and Mississippi.
The other 48 states have
a religious exemption.
And there are 19 states which
have a philosophical exemption,
which says if I don't-- I
understand that the risk
of the vaccine is greater
than the risk of illness.
I will take my
chances on keeping
my child well and healthy
without injecting them
with things that can
cause long-term harm.
So parents now,
there are many states
that are trying to do away
with these exemptions.
They are getting the
force of the government
and of the pharmaceutical
industry that
are coming in and
saying you should not
have a right to refuse.
We need to inoculate
your children
with things that can
potentially harm them.
We need to give
them these vaccines.
So in several states--
Colorado just passed a ruling
and in Oregon and
in Washington, and I
think they're even doing
it in California now.
>>NOORY: So they're clamping
down on parents now.
>>TENPENNY: That parents
need to go and watch
an indoctrination
video sponsored
by the CDC and the
government to tell them
that they are bad parents
if they don't vaccinate
their children and all
the potential problems,
that you could be killing your
child if you don't vaccinate
them.
However, they are never given
the other side of the story
about the risk of vaccines and
the long-term complications.
So it's an indoctrination.
It's a government
indoctrination policy
that we are now seeing that
I think is quite frightening.
>>NOORY: Well, and the
other part of that problem,
too, is states, like
Massachusetts, have passed laws
that they can go and take your
child away from you if they
believe-- they believe--
that you aren't
doing the great job as a parent.
So what's the definition
of what a great parent is?
Do you beat your kid?
Well, maybe you have grounds
to lose your child that way.
But if you decide you
don't want a vaccine,
does that mean
you're a bad parent?
And can the state go in and
take the kid away from you?
You don't even get a chance
to see your own child.
And that's happening
now in states.
>>TENPENNY: Yes.
It's basically the
threat that they're
hanging over parents' heads.
And parents that are
on Medicaid and need
to get WIC to be able to
get food for their children,
they have to vaccinate them.
We have got a government
that's out of control
with this vaccine issue now.
Not only with children
and the potential
of taking their child away--
which is actually more
of a threat than a reality.
Yes, it's happened
one or two times,
but that's how government works.
They make an example
one or two times,
and then that puts the fear
factor into other things.
But now we are doing
things like forcing people
to get a flu shot in
exchange for a job
and that they have to get a flu
shot if they work at a health
care facility.
I got a call about two
years ago from a gentleman
who said, "I work in the IT
department of my hospital.
I work in a building down
the street from the hospital.
I'm not even in the hospital.
I have no contact with
patients, and I still
have to get a flu shot or
I'm going to lose my job."
We're headed down a very
slippery slope there.
If we have to get one
vaccine, a flu shot,
will the next one
be a pneumonia shot?
Then a measles,
then chicken pox.
And maybe you're
having a bad day,
so you better go
take your Prozac.
And maybe we ought to
check your blood sugar,
because maybe you need your
blood sugar pill today.
Where does that stop?
>>NOORY: Are the
administrators, the people
who are force feeding this,
are they well intentioned?
Are they misinformed?
Are they just doing this
because they're on the take?
What's going on?
>>TENPENNY: I think a little
of all of those three things.
I think that
they're misinformed.
I think that there are
barely a doctor, if any,
out there who has actually gone
so far as just read a package
insert to even know
what's being injected
into an adult or children.
We talk about children a
lot, but vaccines are also
given to adults.
I've actually given
parents, said memorize three
vaccine ingredients
from the package insert.
When you take your child
in, say to the doctor,
can you tell me two or three
things that are in that shot.
I can assure you they can't.
>>NOORY: They don't know.
>>TENPENNY: Then the
answer is, why should I
allow you to inject
that into my child
if you don't even
know what's in it?
So I think some of
them are misinformed.
I think some of them just bought
the Kool-Aid that vaccines
are safe, effective,
harmless, and protect you.
And they've never gone
any farther than that.
I believe that there
is a lot of money
to be made at the highest
ends of the vaccine
industry, the manufacturers.
To them, it's just a widget.
It's no more than selling a
carburetor or a spark plug.
And the more of
those that they sell,
the more money that they make.
And so, yes, there's
a lot of money in it.
When I started this,
George, back in 2000,
when I started all
of this research
and putting this
information out,
the vaccine industry was
about a $10 billion industry.
They are now anticipating in
2015 for it to be a $42 billion
industry.
And that's just the vaccines.
Now when you look at
the vaccine industry
as being the driver of the
rest of the health care costs,
it's why we are approaching
a trillion-dollar industry.
>>NOORY: What got you involved
in this in the first place?
>>TENPENNY: I just started
looking at this information.
I got invited to go to the
National Vaccine Information
Center meeting, and I
listened to all these people
and said, how did
I not know this?
How did I not understand that
there was a problem here?
I wasn't vaccinated as a
child when I was growing up.
I grew up in a three generations
of chiropractor family.
>>NOORY: In those days,
they were quacks, right?
>>TENPENNY: Absolutely.
And they were the
ones who started
reporting all of
the paralysis that
was coming with
the polio vaccine.
So I started reading CDC papers.
And I went to the next
paper and the next paper,
and I just felt
if I read enough,
it would finally make sense.
But now, about 18,000
hours worth of research
into this over nearly 14 years,
I can solidly say-- and stand
on my own research and
reading and understanding
of only peer-reviewed
papers, only CDC documents,
not conspiratology.com
and things
like that, the internet
is not my source,
the mainstream
medical is my source--
that vaccines are not safe.
They've never been
proven to be effective.
And they definitely
do cause harm.
>>NOORY: Do any work at all?
>>TENPENNY: No.
>>NOORY: Any of them?
No.
Health does not come
through a needle.
Health is an
inside-out phenomenon.
So if you eat right,
take care of yourself,
do these things to
protect yourself,
that's what really
health is all about.
>>NOORY: Let's talk
about vaccines and what
was the theory
behind it in terms
of how they were
supposed to work?
You get a little bit of
the virus, the disease,
and injected it into somebody
and let your body build up
an immune system?
Was that the concept?
>>TENPENNY: That
was the concept,
that we would just inject a
little virus into your system,
and you would develop this
thing called an antibody.
Well, the problem
with that is that when
you get that virus
into your system
through an injection,
that is not the way
the virus normally
gets into your system
if you're going to get sick.
It comes in through your
respiratory tract or your GI
tract.
And so it gets introduced
in a very abnormal method.
So it doesn't engage
your entire immune system
to be able to take
it out of your body.
We developed this thing
called an antibody, which
even the conventional,
mainstream medical people say,
"We think antibodies keep
you from getting sick,
but we're not sure."
And it's my belief
and my opinion
that that antibody
is nothing more
than a marker of contamination.
We have contaminated
the immune system,
the immune system developed this
antibody to try to glob onto it
and get rid of it.
But just because
you have an antibody
doesn't keep you
from getting sick.
And there are many documented
cases now and reports
of people who have adequate
antibody, what they call
protective antibody, and
they get sick anyway.
Even tetanus.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>TENPENNY: There are
many cases of people
who have high levels
of tetanus antibodies,
and they've still
gotten tetanus.
The CDC does a report
every two years or so
about the number of cases
of tetanus in this country.
And there are always somewhere
between 120 and 150 cases out
of 300 million people.
And of those people,
somewhere between 16% and 20%
of people who get
full blown tetanus
have had four or
more tetanus shots.
So does the tetanus
shot protect you?
Does the antibody protect you?
I think it's a marker
of contamination.
It does nothing to keep
you from getting sick.
>>NOORY: Sherri,
during my Navy days,
I had to get the series of
shots, including a cholera
shot.
And I never went to any
region that had cholera,
but you had to get that.
I gotta tell you, that night
my arm swelled up so big,
and I had to play a
softball game the next day.
>>TENPENNY: Oh gosh.
>>NOORY: It was horrible.
>>TENPENNY: Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, vaccine side effects
can range from anything
from a sore, swollen
arm up to a death.
And it could be
anywhere along the way.
It can be high-pitched fevers.
It can be development
of autoimmune disease,
neurological diseases,
autoimmune diseases like lupus,
Crohn's disease,
asthma, allergies,
a whole long list of side
effects and complications.
And one of the biggest
problems, in my opinion,
is that if you have a death or
a really serious complication,
you can't sue the government.
You can't sue the doctor
who gave it to you.
>>NOORY: Right.
They're immune from that.
>>TENPENNY: You can't sue
the manufacturing industry.
You have to go through
what's called the Vaccine
Court, through the
Federal Court of Claims,
and have somebody, who
is a non-doctor, called
a special master, decide whether
or not that vaccine really made
you sick and really
caused your problem.
And so they look
at the evidence,
and if they decide that
it didn't, then you're
just out of luck.
>>NOORY: Well, that's what
the vaccine does, then.
It makes them
immune to law suits.
>>TENPENNY: [LAUGHS]
I guess it does.
>>NOORY: See?
It does work.
>>TENPENNY: And immune to logic.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: I had a doctor
who had a flu shot who
came down with some syndrome.
>>TENPENNY: Guilliain-Barre.
France
>>NOORY: That's it.
>>TENPENNY: Guillain-Barre.
Uh-huh.
>>NOORY: It affected him.
He just didn't act right.
It affects your nervous
system or something, right?
>>TENPENNY: It does.
It causes an
autoimmune reaction,
which means your body turns
on itself to your spinal cord
and your peripheral nerves.
That's called
Guillain-Barre syndrome.
We know that that happens,
not only in flu shots,
but it can happen
in tetanus shots
and just about any other
vaccine can have that.
>>NOORY: What causes that?
>>TENPENNY: It's this whole
disruption, this whole chain
reaction, of what
happens when you
inject these things
into your system.
You develop an
autoimmune response.
And the autoimmune response
can be to neurologic tissue,
to lung tissue, to GI
tissue, to heart tissue.
It could be to wherever
that immune response happens
to click in based on a principle
called molecular mimicry, which
means--
>>NOORY: God, that's scary.
>>TENPENNY: It's very scary.
>>NOORY: I mean, you
go in, you're healthy.
You get an injection.
And you get sick.
>>TENPENNY: Well, the
Gardisil vaccine--
now we have at least
120 confirmed deaths
from that vaccine.
The Gardisil vaccine is the
vaccine given to young girls
to keep them from
getting cervical cancer.
But in the last two years,
they're now also giving it
to young boys because it's
these dirty little boys that
spread that virus, you know.
>>NOORY: They're the ones.
>>TENPENNY: They're the ones.
And there have been 15,
20 deaths among the boys
that we've just started and at
least 120, maybe more by now--
>>NOORY: From this vaccine.
>>TENPENNY: From this vaccine.
So you've got young girls that
are somewhere between 9 and 15
who are getting this shot, who
were athletes, cheerleaders,
prom queens, musicians.
>>NOORY: Oh, that's sad.
>>TENPENNY: And now
they are either dead
or they're sitting in a
chair, completely debilitated
and have no life in the
future, over a vaccine
that's completely unnecessary.
>>NOORY: You have a parent who
wants to do the right thing.
This has got to be a
horrible decision for them.
Because they're
bombarded on one end
from the media, from
doctors, from pharmacies,
from pharmaceutical companies:
vaccination, vaccination,
vaccination.
And you don't want to
screw up your child's life.
You don't want to
think, oh my God.
I made a mistake.
I didn't get the vaccine.
What have I done to my child?
What does a poor parent do?
>>TENPENNY: Well, I always
tell parents that when
you choose to have children, you
sign up for some level of risk.
Kids don't come with a manual.
>>NOORY: It ain't easy.
>>TENPENNY: [LAUGHS] And
there are some levels of risk,
like for example, when your
kids go out and ride a bike.
You have them wear a helmet.
You teach them how to
swim, so that cuts down
the chance of them drowning.
There are things that you
do to mitigate those risks.
So when you look at
the vaccinations,
you say, well, if
I don't vaccinate,
what can I do to keep
my child healthy?
I can feed them good food,
get them to bed on time,
make them take vitamins,
love them a lot,
because we know what love
does to the immune system.
There are lots of
things I can do
to keep my child from getting
sick, Vitamin D, vitamin
C, all sorts of things.
When I choose to
vaccinate, the risk of that
is completely unknown,
and you can't unvaccinate.
So when you inject something
into the body, you as a parent
lose all control
over that outcome.
That outcome can be
anything, as we've
said, from a sore
arm to a death.
And you cannot predict
that in advance.
So when you weigh
those risks, these
are things I can do to
keep my child healthy,
I lose total control when
I decide to vaccinate.
And why are we so afraid of
a cough, a fever, and a rash?
Which is what pertussis,
measles, mumps, rubella,
chickenpox, all
those things are.
A cough, a fever, and a rash.
And if they were so
deadly, George, you and I
would no longer be here, because
anybody over the age of 50
would just be gone.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>TENPENNY: So I think
that parents need to look
at mitigating risk and what
they can control and what they
can't.
And to me, it's much
more safe to err
on the side of not
vaccinating and keeping them
healthy than to inject
them with something that
can cause them a
lifetime of bad health.
>>NOORY: Do you debate people
from the medical side often?
>>TENPENNY: No.
And it's only because
they won't debate me.
>>NOORY: They're afraid.
>>TENPENNY: I've
actually volunteered.
I've tried to talk to
many of the big wigs
in the pro-vaccine industry, and
they won't take on the debate.
And their argument is, from the
CDC is that if we debate it,
then we give credence to the
fact that there's a debate.
And in their mind,
there is no debate.
You vaccinate, vaccinate,
vaccinate, vaccinate.
And there's no other way
around it except to vaccinate.
>>NOORY: The people
who are creating
these vaccines, the
researchers-- not
the companies, but
the researchers-- I
assume they're well intentioned.
>>TENPENNY: I think so.
Because, again, they've
bought the Kool-Aid.
And they really
believe that a vaccine
can eradicate an
infection, which
we need to stop calling
these things diseases.
They're infections.
They come and go just
like the flu or a cold.
If they can eradicate
that, then why
isn't that a little bit better?
They give no
recognition whatsoever
to what that injection
can do in terms
of causing other side effects.
And there's a lot
of money in it.
I mean, you develop a
vaccine that comes to market,
we're talking hundreds of
millions of dollars, maybe even
billions of dollars if you
get that instituted worldwide.
So I guess people
who are inventors
are probably well intentioned,
but there's always
an economic driver.
>>NOORY: And I
guess the person who
creates it gets
his bonus, right?
>>TENPENNY: His bonus.
Either he gets the money or
he gets his names up in lights
or whatever makes him famous.
I mean, there's always a driver.
>>NOORY: What are other
nations, not third world,
but other nations,
doing about vaccines?
>>TENPENNY: Every country
has a vaccination policy.
Most of Western Europe,
South America, all of them
have a vaccination policy.
But we are the only
country that has mandates.
We are the only
country that forcibly
has these kids get injections
before they come to school.
The other countries,
they offer them,
and I believe that doctors are
much more lenient about, well,
you know, your child has asthma.
He's sick, he has a fever.
Maybe we shouldn't
do this today.
I know that in some
countries, they actually
even do skin testing
with the vaccine
to see if the child's
going to react
to any of those litany of
ingredients that are in there.
>>NOORY: Like those
allergy tests .
>>TENPENNY: Yeah.
And if they create a
big wheal, it gets red,
then it's like, well,
your child would probably
react badly to this.
We're not going to give it.
We don't do that here.
The other thing
that we don't do is
that when you give the first
shot, then the second shot,
and the third shot, they
are given in a series,
ostensibly because
not everybody is
going to develop that
antibody that we talked about.
So we give it three times,
because the first one
creates a little reaction.
The second one is
a larger reaction.
And then the third one--
>>NOORY: And then
the booster, right?
>>TENPENNY: Right.
And that booster
on that third one
can sometimes put
those antibody levels
in a child up into the tens
of thousands of levels.
They don't need that.
>>NOORY: It's risky and high.
>>TENPENNY: It's very
risky and very high.
But we don't have the
economics in our system
to test each child
after one shot to say,
do you have enough antibody?
Is it good enough for us
in the way we define it?
It's a one size fits all policy.
All the children,
all the adults,
get all the vaccines
on a certain schedule
without exception.
>>NOORY: They give the
whooping cough vaccine,
but it's still around.
They haven't eradicated that.
>>TENPENNY: Yeah, and there's
been a lot of discussion
about that in the past
couple of years, too.
Because they're
scratching their head.
They don't know why that is.
Part of it, I believe, it's
because that vaccine was
developed in 1940s,
and the bacteria
has morphed and changed out
there in the environment.
>>NOORY: It's smart.
>>TENPENNY: And in fact,
the pertussis bacteria,
which is what causes--
the spore of that
is what causes the
whooping cough.
Now they're saying that
most of the cases of that we
see in kids that we would
define them or diagnose
with whooping cough is
not caused by pertussis.
It's caused by another
bacteria called parapertussis.
And guess what?
There's a vaccine in
development for that one, too.
>>NOORY: Oh, great.
>>TENPENNY: [LAUGHS] Yeah.
>>NOORY: How long are
these vaccines at trial
before they come to marketplace?
>>TENPENNY: That can vary.
That can vary anywhere
from 4 to 20 years.
I mean, sometimes--
>>NOORY: That long.
>>TENPENNY: They've been trying
to develop a new flu shot being
made from this, what's
called a cell line.
And several times--
Baxter's brought
this to market several times.
And it's been so
reactive and causing
so much fever and so
many side effects,
they've taken it off the market.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>TENPENNY: There's
another vaccine
called ProQuad, which is
measles, mumps, rubella,
and chickenpox all in one shot.
They've had that one
on and off the market
I believe about three times
because it causes so many side
effects.
But they keep trying it.
They keep trying
to bring it back.
>>NOORY: I hear measles
are coming back.
Is that true?
>>TENPENNY: Oh, you
know, George, we
have 40 cases of measles.
And we've got the
media in an uproar.
Like, oh, my god,
it's all this--
>>NOORY: It's over!
>>TENPENNY: It's all
those unvaccinated--
>>NOORY: Ebola's coming here!
>>TENPENNY: [LAUGHS] It's all
those unvaccinated kids that
are causing these
epidemics to come back
of these eradicate diseases.
And they're not.
I mean, we can have tens of
thousands of side effects.
In fact, every year, there
are 12,000 vaccine reactions
reported to the CDC,
at least 12,000.
And they believe
that's only 10%.
So we have all these reactions.
Do you ever hear anything
about that in the news?
But we have 40 cases of
measles or 20 cases of mumps
or 50 cases of pertussis--
oh my gosh, it's horrible.
It's a travesty.
>>NOORY: It's a pandemic.
>>TENPENNY: It's a pandemic.
And it's because of all those
unvaccinated kids; however,
when they peel back
the onion, they
find out that all of those
kids who've ended up sick,
like the mumps outbreak
that they're having right
now at Ohio State, all of those
kids have had at least one,
usually two, mumps vaccines.
>>NOORY: Now the fact that I
had the measles, and the mumps,
and all that when I was
a kid, I'm immune now?
>>TENPENNY: Well,
what happens when
you have a natural infection
is that your immune system has
two arms.
I think of it as kind
of like a teeter totter.
And one arm's called TH1.
And the other arm's called TH2.
And when you actually
have a real infection,
you engage both sides.
That teeter totter
goes back and forth
and activates into
a long-term immunity
because you've had
fever, and you've
engaged cytokines and
all these different parts
of your immune system so that
now you have a real immunity.
When you have a
vaccine, you only
have a TH2 side, no TH1 side.
So you have a false immunity.
And that's why this
stuff all goes away.
And so that's why
people who have actually
had these infections,
like you-- I
had measles, mumps, rubella,
chickenpox, pertussis,
all these things
when I was a kid.
And I think it's one of the
reasons why we're possibly
so healthy today.
Plus, I think we take
good care of ourselves.
We like to take
vitamins and supplements
and eat right and exercise.
And that's what it
takes to be healthy.
Health does not come
through a needle.
>>NOORY: Sherri, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>TENPENNY: Thank
you so much, George.
>>NOORY: OK.
Like I said, we're
not here to tell
you to get vaccines or not.
You make up your own mind.
You get the information,
and you decide.
I'm George Noory.
And thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."